---
layout: post
title:  "Automation"
author: Lucas Mefford
picture: /img/employees/lmefford.jpg
date:   2017-10-12 20:34:26 -0500
categories: blog
---

# Automation: The Perfect Assistant or Replacement?

The goal of business is to take an idea or technology, and market it, sell it for profit, invest profits in improving the product or create a new product, and repeat the cycle for all of the time. This must be done in a way that maximizes production efficiency, production quality, and production quantity but minimizes production error and production cost. The greatest way to achieve low costs and efficiently produce high-quality goods in mass is automation. This is no surprise as &quot;the ultimate goal of automation technologies is increased productivity&quot; (Davenport 3). Automation may be the key to efficiency, higher quality, and increased profit, but increasing the reliance on automation will create an unemployment crisis and create an economic downfall worse than the great depression. During the Great Depression unemployment maxed out at an estimated 24.75% (O.H. LLC 1). Current estimates in a study published in 2013 by Benedikt Frey and Michael Osborne suggest 47% of currently existing jobs may not exist in the upcoming decades due to their high potential for being automated (&quot;Anxiety&quot;). Unlike the case with many of the jobs that may have been automated in the past, people holding these jobs may not be able to find a suitable replacement as all similar middle-class jobs will have been eliminated. As President Barack Obama said in his farewell address, &quot;The next wave of economic dislocation won&#39;t come from overseas. It will come from the relentless pace of automation that makes many good, middle-class jobs obsolete&quot; (Davenport 2).

The full effects of automation may be a long way off, but their impact will not be imminent, rather automation&#39;s effects will be gradual. As automation slowly comes to fruition it&#39;s devastating effects may create a vicious cycle of economic failure and unemployment. The cycle will most likely function in this order. First, a large number of workers are laid off due to cost and their jobs are automated. The mass firings cause workers who were laid off to want to conserve their money and therefore spend less. As a result of less spending by consumers, companies have to find a way to make up for lost profits by raising prices or cutting costs. Inevitably, one company will decide to cut costs, but wanting to maintain productivity they will have to automate, consequently restarting the cycle. Eventually, there will have to be an end to the cycle resulting in total economic collapse.

A prime example of this effect was seen after the 2008 housing market crash. After the crash, consumer spending decreased leading to mass layoffs and automated replacements from companies trying to cut costs without having to majorly increase prices. It was estimated as a result of the Great Recession 2.5 million jobs were permanently wiped out, and even though the U.S. economy has recovered its production rate back to pre-recession levels, it is doing so with 6 percent fewer workers in the workforce (Lyons 2). For a larger scale perspective, while the &quot;U.S. economy is pumping out goods in record volumes, it is achieving that feat with 7.3 million fewer factory hands than in 1979,&quot; when manufacturing employment was at its highest (AFP 1). Out of those 7.3 million workers lost &quot;95 percent of [those] job losses were due to productivity improvements including automation and computer technology, rather than trade&quot; (APF 1).

Alongside advancements in productivity, automation tends to be cheaper than hiring humans. According to PayScale, Inc&#39;s website the average salary for a factory worker in the United States is $28,000 excluding other costs such as healthcare and legal fees (Payscale 1). In contrast to their human creators robot&#39;s do not need rest, will not sue, and are a lot cheaper to care for. Foxconn, the largest contract manufacturer on the planet, is installing a robot of it&#39;s own design called the Foxbot, each does the same job as a human worker &quot;spraying, welding, and assembly,&quot; but only costs a one time payment of $20,000 (Davidow and Malone 2). Investments in automation in order to reduce costs and promote profits by Foxconn and many other corporations may be the downfall of the blue-collar factory worker and the rise of the of automated robot replacements.

However, the threat of automation does not only impact blue-collar workers. New advancements in technology have eliminated the need for the existence of certain white-collar jobs. For example, some law firms now use artificial intelligence based programs to sort through and organize legal documents, a job previously set aside for a high paid human lawyer (Lyons 2). Any jobs consisting of file management, logistics, or statistics of any kind without much need for human interaction can be replaced by artificial intelligence. The only jobs that may be relatively safe from automation are those &quot;that require creativity, management of people, or caregiving&quot; (Miller 4). Even some jobs requiring direct and indirect human interaction, such as being a journalist have the potential of being automated. Certain types of journalism, in particular, have a higher chance of automation. For instance, journalism purely based on the summary of an event such as a sports game or the creation of a market report concerning a certain sector of the stock market has a very high chance of automation due to their simplicity (&quot;Anxiety&quot;).

Another negative effect of the predicted job loss due to automation is the exponential growth of the wealth gap between super rich and the poor. Automation, not shipping jobs overseas or illegal workers may deal the final blow to the already diminishing middle class. According to the results of a survey of two thousand technology experts by Pew Research Center nearly half of the participants agree automation will &quot;displace significant numbers of blue and white-collar workers, eventually causing a breakdown in the social order&quot; (Mlot 2-3). The unemployed will seek new jobs, but in all likelihood, they will not find any comparable, salary and skill wise, to the job they had. As a result, certain previously middle-class population groups will fall into the lower class with little chance of recovery. Another unintentional result of automation is a new &quot;income gap between skilled workers whose jobs cannot be automated and everyone else&quot; (Davenport 4).

In response to hearing about the threat of automation, some might ask &quot;could the government do something to stop the devastation before it happens?&quot; It is possible, but regulation would not be easy, as most politicians do not bring it up as a threat, because of the fear of looking like a Luddite. According to the Oxford Dictionary, a Luddite is &quot;A person opposed to increased industrialization or new technology.&quot; No political figure wants to speak out against the production efficiency of and the technological progress achieved through innovation in the field of automation. In the past as technology advanced more jobs were created, &quot;but now many economists, are concerned the previous pattern won&#39;t be repeated in this round of automation&quot; (Davenport 4). Another reason the government might not try to regulate automation is regulation would be bad for business. Regulation would negatively affect business because the regulations would be against investment and the improvement of the productivity of a company.

  So, what is the solution? It is a difficult question to answer directly, but many possible solutions exist. One possible solution is the integration of technology to assist workers instead of fully replacing them with an artificial intelligence driven machines. Research funded by corporations and the government on enhancing workers abilities using advanced technologies could prove beneficial to the economy in the long run by promoting more human jobs. Possible external augmentations could be for instance exo-suits, enhancing the precision and strength of the user along with a guidance computer helping them better perform their task. In numbers based fields AIs could be used as tools by the employees rather than replacements. The AI&#39;s would process the numbers and interpret data, but humans would be in charge of checking for flaws and assembling the data in a meaningful way so it could be presented. Some corporations and advanced medical facilities have already begun the process of integrating such technologies. In the state of California at Intuitive Surgical of Sunnyvale &quot;the surgery bots don&#39;t replace surgeons,&quot; instead the surgeon is in charge of controlling the robot to assist with operations on patients (Lyons 2). Because of the innovation behind the surgery assistance device and other upcoming technologies, integration shows great promise as a possible solution to the ever-approaching threat of automation.

Although integration shows promise there are some notable challenges, necessary to overcome before integration could become a reality. The first and most important is cost. The previously mentioned surgery bot costs &quot;as high as $2.2 million per unit&quot; (Lyons 2). The cost of research and development of new integration technologies, along with the cost of re-training employees on how to properly utilize advanced machinery would detract many corporations from even considering integration over automation. A possible fix for the cost issue would be a government tax break for corporations pursuing integration. Another issue with integration is because the use of advanced technology, productivity will be significantly increased, leading to a cut in the number of necessary workers in a certain role. However, compared to automation unemployment would be reduced, and wages for the average worker would most likely rise due to fewer workers being required for a particular task.

 Another similar idea to combat the threat of automation is changing the way work is perceived and what roles humans occupy, in an article titled &quot;Beyond Automation,&quot; business and economy writers, Thomas Davenport and Julia Kirby, explore the idea of augmentation of the workplace (2). They discuss the potential of new job opportunities created by human, machine collaboration to allow workers to go deeper into their work and find new possibilities to expand into (Davenport and Kirby 3). They also support the idea that augmentation will allow people to work with AI in order to &quot;take on tasks that are superior - more sophisticated, more fulfilling, better suited to [a person&#39;s] strengths&quot; (Davenport and Kirby 3-4). In essence Davenport and Kirby believe A.I. automation can be worked with to enhance human understanding and create unique roles for workers. In spite of how comforting augmentation in the workplace may sound to a white-collar worker, this concept does little to address the reality many blue-collar workers will face when a robot takes their job. Augmentation, much like integration, has one other major issue - cost. The cost of retraining workers to understand how to properly interface with advanced AI, and the expense the next generation of students will face when paying for higher education, may prove a challenging obstacle to overcome before augmentation may be considered a viable option.

 Alternatively, one idea explored by many economists and other experts in a variety of fields is instead of trying to save old world jobs such as manufacturing and labor, humanity should explore the possibility of creating new jobs based in service, the public-sector, and social interaction. These experts also agree one of the best solutions &quot;for the next generation of workers, [is] more college degrees&quot; (Miller 4). So what does this mean? In short, the solution the experts propose calls for current workers and the generations ahead to rethink what employment path they might seek and focus on adjusting that path to avoid being replaced by a robot.

However, much like the other solutions proposed there are many critical issues to be addressed before the creation of new jobs and the increased pursuit of higher education may be considered. Primarily, the largest restrictor of this proposal is the cost in both time and money. Higher education requires a large time commitment and access to financial resources, something a large portion of the population cannot afford to consider as an option. In order to combat the costs of higher education and promote the benefits of a higher education over going to work directly after high school, the government could grant tax reductions to college students and those with degrees. In addition to tax reductions, the creation of social programs to lower the cost of college could be used as a potential tool to promote higher education over easily automated factory labor. Another obstacle in the way of this proposal is many of the new jobs it relies upon don&#39;t exist yet, so people may not be able to train for them or follow a degree path to be qualified for them when they do finally arrive. Patience is a virtue workers must adopt while waiting for the jobs of the future because  &quot;it takes time for processes to change, [new] standards to emerge and [for] people to learn [the] new skills&quot; necessary for more advanced jobs (&quot;Anxiety&quot;). One other issue with this proposal is it does not discuss what to do with workers who increased knowledge by education is not a possibility due to the inability to adapt to more strenuous intellectual standards required by interaction based jobs. Overall, of every solution proposed so far, this proposal might be the easiest to implement.

Automation is a potential threat, but as all things are, the threat must be taken with a grain of salt. The problems with automation identified in this essay are of a negative view on the subject matter. Although many economic experts agree humanity&#39;s future through automation could be a dark path forward, there are those who believe through automation humanity will be forever improved. One thing is certain, many along the way will have their toes stepped on and be hurt by automation. AI will disrupt labor markets just as the invention of the car disrupted all horse related markets in the past, but from its implementation, new paths will be created for people to follow. As Rudyard Kipling wrote in his poem &quot;The Secret of Machines:&quot;

&quot;We can pull and haul and push and lift and drive,

We can print and plough and weave and heat and light,

We can run and race and swim and fly and dive,

We can see and hear and count and read and write!

...Because, for all our power and weight and size,

We are nothing more than children of your brain!&quot; (1)

Looking forward, humanity must collectively understand, although it has the capacity to build machines to perform every task and work every job, it must ensure its own existence first and foremost. Automation may be the key to efficiency, higher quality, and increased profit, but these benefits have no meaning if they create an unemployment crisis and ruin the livelihoods of multitudes of families.

Works Cited

Afp. &quot;Instead of Immigrants, Automation May Take Away More Jobs.&quot; _The Economic Times_, 14 Jan. 2017, economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/business/instead-of- immigrants-automation-may-take-away-more-jobs/articleshow/56563837.cms.

Davenport, Thomas H. &quot;Why Trump Doesn&#39;t Tweet About Automation.&quot; _Harvard Business Review - Technology_, Harvard Business Publishing, 12 Jan. 2017, hbr.org/2017/01/why-trump-doesnt -tweet-about-automation.

Davenport, Thomas H., and Julia Kirby. &quot;Beyond Automation.&quot; 1 June 2015, hbr.org/2015/06/beyond-automation&amp;ab=Article-Links-End\_of\_Page\_Recirculation.

Davidow, William H., and Michael S. Malone. &quot;What Happens to Society When Robots Replace Workers?&quot; _Harvard Business Review_, Harvard Business Publishing, 10 Dec. 2014, hbr.org/2014/12/what-happens-to-society-when-robots-replace-workers.

Kipling, Rudyard. &quot;The Secret of the Machines.&quot; _Poems_, Kipling Socity, www.kiplingsociety.co.uk/poems\_secretmachines.htm.

Lyons, Daniel. &quot;Who Needs Humans?&quot; _Newsweek Tech and Science_, Newsweek, 19 July 2011, www.newsweek.com/threat-automation-robots-threaten-american-jobs-68469.

Miller, Claire Cain. &quot;The Long-Term Jobs Killer Is Not China. It&#39;s Automation.&quot; _New York Times_, 21 Dec. 2016, www.nytimes.com/2016/12/21/upshot/the-long-term-jobs-killer- is-not-china-its-automation.html?\_r=0.

Mlot, Stephanie. &quot;Will A Robot Revolution Lead To Mass Unemployment?.&quot; _PC Magazine_ (2014): 20-22. _MasterFILE Elite_. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.

Online Highways LLC. &quot;Unemployment Statistics during the Great Depression.&quot;_Unemployment Statistics during the Great Depression_, u-s-History.com, www.u-s-history.com/pages/h15 28.html.

PayScale, Inc. &quot;Assembly Line Worker, Factory Salary.&quot; _Assembly Line Worker, Factory Salary_, www.payscale.com/research/US/Job=Assembly\_Line\_Worker%2c\_Factory/Hourly\_Rate.

The Economist. &quot;Automation and Anxiety .&quot; _The Economist_, 25 June 2016, www.economist.com/news/special-report/21700758-will-smarter-machines-cause-mass-unemployment-automation-and-anxiety.
